Are there any best practices for
building visualizations that use colors?
The very first graph you showed often
seem to be very friendly to people of
color blindness.
With all the greens and reds.
>> That is a great point and
hence why I mentioned that.
So what we're gonna look at today,
and our first project actually,
we're going to look at using
color to convey meaning.
And when we're thinking
about accessibility,
we definitely want to be using
colors that can be flexible to
folks with different visual
perception systems, right?
So what we're gonna explore in our
first hands on project that we're
gonna tackle shortly,
is how to customize the color values for
a visualization, using the grammar
of graphics based visualization
library that we're gonna
dig into here today, plot.
And through that we're gonna look at
a couple different examples of color
palettes, but in terms of making sure that
you choose colors that are appropriate for
your use case.
And that might be for example,
considering accessibility for your users,
it might be considering
things like brand colors.
If you're building something for
a particular company,
whatever the use case, you'll be able to
see how to put in a custom color palette,
to adapt the visualization to your needs.
Yeah.
>> Patrick in chat says,
I write data visualization for healthcare.
It's crazy how much of what you said
about performance aligns with the reasons
why we build visualizations regarding
people's vital health data.
>> Awesome.
Yeah, and I think the healthcare field and
understanding visualizations
in healthcare data,
I think the last couple of years have
shown all of us all over the world,
just how important and informative looking
at health data under a visual lens can be.
I mean, I don't know about you all but
I've probably looked at more
charts in the last few years.
Not just because I was working in
database but because we were all tracking
Coronavirus spikes and hospital
occupation stats and all of that stuff.
So absolutely, really great use case,
great point and
we would love to hear more about
those examples in the chat.
Yeah.
>> Front of masters we have
a metrics dashboard that
of course shows usage and
revenue and all that kind of stuff.
We have a bunch of
different visualizations,
but example that I really
like is Apple Watch data.
How they're always continuously
like surfacing new charts and
data, it's like I find
a new one all the time.
>> Yeah, yeah.
And being able to kind of just like
instantly understand how many steps
you've been getting in the, [LAUGH]
last week, or how different in this
case courses on a platform or
perhaps it's different pages on a site.
Looking at analytics around traffic and
revenue and things like that.
This is why folks are often tasked
with building metrics dashboards for
these bespoke customized use cases.
Because having a single place where you
can go to kind of get the most updated
insights and patterns, is super valuable.
Yeah.
>> Then Michael in chat says,
my previous job was for
a central office of a retail company.
We did lots of visualizations for
product data.
How things were selling, how things
would mysteriously disappear, etc.
>> [LAUGH] Sure, exactly, yeah.
I think any application such as retail
where there's a lot of complexity,
there's a lot of different
things moving around, and
trying to track all of that in just a kind
of a spreadsheet or a database table or
something like that, it's gonna get
overwhelming really quickly, right?
So being able to pull it into
dashboards and see visually,
instantly at a glance, what is happening,
how things are moving around or
evaporating around I guess,
[LAUGH] can be super valuable.
And again, why in a whole bunch of
different fields, the notion of having to
build a dashboard whatever the application
is, is kind of a very common use case.
Yeah.
>> And then Leo in chat says, I read
a book called Enlightenment Now which
advocates a data driven
analysis of human progress.
The book shows and comments on
examples from this excellent website
they link to is ourworldanddata.org.
>> Yeah, our world in data.
I think I've come across that once or
twice before that's really cool.
And definitely there are so
many really interesting sights and
kind of aggregations of I would say sort
of envelope pushing data visualization.
Sometimes that's a matter of
getting your hands on data that is
kind of unconventional or
tells some interesting story that you
wouldn't usually get to hear about.
So for example looking at data around
human progress that could be mind blowing,
you know?
And I think that there are a lot of really
great resources on folks who are building.
As we said before these kinds of cutting
edge visualizations that sometimes go even
past the notion of analysis to things like
art or sort of displaying things in such
a visually compelling way that it really
grabs the viewers attention and can help
call attention to important things like
for example climate change data, right?
Being able to show folks, look at how
far off the scale this slide is going or
what have you, can really help us
affect change in the world and
get the progress that we want to see made,
made.
Awesome.
Well, thank you so much.
Those are awesome examples and
sounds like we got some great
links going around in chat.
And at the end of the day today I'll
also leave y'all with some other kind of
further reading links, that hopefully
will point you in some other
interesting directions to find out more
about kind of the deep, deep, deep,
wild, wide field of databases and all of
the amazing applications it has, yeah.
>> And last one in chat Sondra says, he's
a lawyer with a background in software
development and wants to implement data
visualization in their work as a lawyer.
>> Awesome.
Okay, yeah.
So I'm sure there are tons of applications
in the legal field to look at.
I don't know how different
cases are processed,
I do not know anything about the legal
field, [LAUGH] I'll have to say.
But essentially what we're gonna cover
today are really just some very basic
building blocks.
Again, this is first steps, right?
We're taking our first steps with
understanding some core notions of
database, some of these core building
blocks of thinking about the way that
we express features of data as features
of the visual pixels on our screen.
And that is going to be something that
what we're gonna dig into today is how to
essentially customize your visualization
so that you're not just using these kind
of out of the box bar charts or
what have you.
But so that you can build
the visualization that you need to answer
the questions that you're interested in,
because each of us is gonna be interested
in slightly different datasets and
have slightly different
questions about those datasets.
So that is kind of our high level goal for
today,
is to set ourselves up with some key
concepts and a very flexible high
level tool observable plot, which we're
gonna talk about most of the day,
to set up some exploratory
data visualizations.
And then that should stand us
in good shape to go on and
dig even deeper with lower
level libraries like D3.